In this short video we’ll discuss theming
in Codename One
We’ll start with a bare bones native style
application to keep things simple.
We’ll start in the designer tool
In the designer tool we can use the native
theme option to see how our theme will look
in iOS and Android.
We can thus test the native feel of our theme
We can add a new entry to the theme by pressing
the add button.
We can pick a theme entry from the combo box
or type a custom entry.
The derive flag indicates if we want to inherit
the appearance from the native theme.
We can define many background image and gradient
types but now we’ll focus on simpler things
I will create a green button with red foreground
because my goal is to teach not create something
“pretty”.
I can set the color by typing the color hex
values into the respective entries or by using
the color picker widget.
I will also need to set the background to
opaque which is 255, 0 is transparent
I can pick the alignment of the text, center
is pretty common for buttons so I’ll use
that but I can align to the left & right too
Padding and margin can be defined in pixels,
percentage units of the screen size or millimeters.
We always recommend using millimeters as it
is consistently portable.
This allows me to customize the size and spacing
of the button, don’t be stingy with padding
as elements need to be big enough for touch
interaction
There is a lot of confusion over padding and
margin so let’s clarify this.
Margin represents the space outside of the
component so you use that to push components
away from one another or bring them closer
together.
Padding makes the component larger or smaller,
it’s the additional space within the component
beyond what is normally needed to draw the
component.
I’ll discuss border & derive soon.
For now we’ll move directly to font
Font’s can be pretty complex.
I recommend only using one of these native
fonts which will look decent on Android & iOS.
You should usually size the native font in
millimeters to avoid platform inconsistency
This looks great on iOS, lets see how it looks
on Android…
Uh oh, that was totally surprising and unexpected.
This happens because on Android the button
has a border.
Lets edit the button entry
Border always takes precedence over other
background types so we should derive it and
use an empty border if we don’t want a border
That seems to have fixed it but if we click
the button we see there is still a border
for the selected style
We solve this by adding a new selected style
for the button that derives from the unselected
button and also overrides the border style
with an empty option.
The selected style is effectively the focused
state of the button
I use command-c or control-c on windows to
copy and paste the selected style into the
pressed style.
When I click the button the problem is gone
but I don’t see any effect either
I can edit the selected style of the button
and pick a dark green color I then do the
same for the pressed style of the button.
Once all that is done pressing the button
shows the correct highlighting and all is
good in the world once more
The code to show this is trivial, just a button
added to a form
And this is how it looks on the simulator
Lets say we want to add a red button to the
app, we’ll just add a new theme entry and
call it RedButton.
We will then derive from Button so we will
get a similar look
We will set the background to red and foreground
to white while leaving everything else in
the default state
We’ll copy and paste the red button style
into the selected state, we’ll leave everything
as is and only change the background color
to be a shade darker than the current red
color by tuning it in the picker
Now we’ll just paste this into pressed and
go back to the IDE
We add the red button entry by creating a
new button and adding it into the form.
We use set UIID to set the theme entry ID
to red button.
We can also pass this to the button constructor
as the second argument but I wanted the code
to be clearer
As you can see the red button looks and acts
like the green button
The cool thing is that you can apply a UIID
to damn near anything so I can apply the red
button style to a text field thru set UIID
and get almost the same effect
As you can see this is pretty close to the
button appearance applied to a component that
has completely different behavior
The theme can be manipulated directly from
code in roughly the same way.
We’ll set the button color to blue by setting
the background color of the red buttons unselected
style.
Notice the pressed/selected behavior for the
new blue button is missing
We can fix that by changing the selected & pressed
styles as well directly from code
I set them to the same color so we don’t
see much but you hopefully get my point…
There is a better way though, by using get
all styles we can set the property on all
the styles in one swoop.
One last subject is theme constants, with
constants we can manipulate many aspects of
the theme.
You can see them in the theme UI and look
at the help text below each constant to understand
what they are about.
I suggest reading in the developer guide about
the various options in the theme constants
and theming in general.
Thanks for watching, I hope you enjoyed this
tutorial and found it helpful
