Hello guys, welcome to another
installment of how do I and today I want
to talk to you about something that is
immensely important to all of us
performance. Now this is a big subject
so I'll try to cover it as much as I can
but still be relatively brief. So go
into the if you don't experience good
performance with code name one then
please talk to us in the forums check
the developer guide and uh go over other
things. I'll provide as many tips as I
can but obviously the platform is huge
and contains a lot of hidden information
in it and things sometimes don't act as
you would expect. So let's go over the
Lists
basics here of what
uh the pitfalls people usually run into
in
performance. So let's start with lists.
If you used a list and you made made use
of your own custom list model or list
renderer, then there are several
pitfalls within these two tools. So to
explain that, let's look at the API
itself. The API for the list model is
here under list. And normally if you
don't actually create your own model,
then you shouldn't have a problem. The
only problem you would have is if you
have a list that's already showing on
the screen.
that if you have a list that's already
showing on the screen, you might have a
problem if you repeatedly call uh the
default list models add item entry or
remove item
entry. And the reason behind
this is that both of these methods are
rel uh they every time you add an item
or remove an item, the list model needs
to fire an event and notify the list. So
if you do that repeatedly, add lots of
items, remove lots of items all the
time, then the data change event is
fired to the parent list and you're
effectively causing lots of events. All
of them trigger repaints and are very
expensive and they're very hard to pull.
So to change a lot of data list, you're
better off replacing the entire model
than firing this event cons constantly.
So that's really important if you're
using the default list. If you implement
your own list, however, you should make
the methods like get and get item at be
very very very fast. If you can't make
them, if you connect to the internet or
do any other heavy lifting sort of
things, then what you should do is
return immediately with fake data or any
data something and then update them
later on. It's crucial because these
methods are called all the time and very
frequently and we rely on them being
cached locally. This is hugely important
and you should observe that when making
a network uh bound list or something
like that and using the list model
properly. The same holds true for the
renderer. A common mistake people make
is when they call the renderer
component, they return a new instance of
a component. Never ever do that. That
sort of uh blocks your performance
instantly, thrushes the garbage
collector and creates uh a lot of
garbage because this method is called a
lot. It's not called per the number of
the items because we have animations
within the list and things like that. It
can be called repeatedly o repeatedly
over and over and over and over again.
So take that into consideration.
whenever you're building any form of uh
interface on top of the list
component. So that those two things are
important and I urge you to pay
attention to them.
Uh the next issue is if you're doing any
sort of drawing of strings or things
like that, the string width method
uh which is supported by fonts and
allows you to essentially measure the
width of a string is really really
really slow on some platforms, not on
all of them. And that's a feature of the
platform because uh actually measuring
the width of a string is much more
complicated than it might seem. you need
to go through the glyphing process and
everything. So, uh that's one of the
reasons why our label implementation
isn't multi-line by default
automatically
uh and why text area is much slower than
label. So if you want to build something
that's efficient, I suggest you use
labels and not try to have line breaks
automatically because you would get far
worse performance
uh because of the repeated calls to
string width. Now we have internal
optimizations for that that sort of make
lots of assumptions and try to uh reduce
the cost of string width. So it's not a
log in of uh of the cost because you
essentially need to measure every
characters with it's I I
digress. But still automatic line
breaking is far more expensive than you
deciding in advance. Okay, I want to
break a line here. So don't thrush
string with w with you'd be surprised
how how much of the performance costs we
pay in codeame one is related to that
particular method that's uh that's
difficult to optimize
uh bitmap fonts are deprecated in
codeame one we recommend you use true
type fonts for everything they perform
as fast as any font but unfortunately
they're unsupported in the low-end
devices ES uh in J2ME and stuff like
that. So we are aware of some people
still choosing to use bitmap fonts
despite their many disadvantages. One of
which is their performance.
Surprisingly, they actually work faster
than uh system fonts in some
cases, but uh they work slower on other
platforms and it's it's a matter of uh
uh it's really difficult to assess their
performance on real world devices. So,
we recommend people don't use them uh at
all. They're more expensive in terms of
memory. They're they're not
internationalizable.
they have many problems. So, we just
don't recommend people use them at all
and we have deprecated
them. Uh, small images doesn't seem like
such a performance issue and it isn't.
If you're drawing one small image, then
no big deal. It doesn't cost you almost
anything to draw an image small or
large. The problem is when you draw
small images and you draw lots of small
images. So for instance using a one
pixel image and tiling it in the
background that's really really really
slow and the reason for that is how the
GPU works. Essentially every time you
draw to the screen you need to go back
and forth between the CPU and uh the
graphic processing unit and going back
and forth there is really expensive for
doing lots of small operations. you
you're better off uh doing larger
operations. So in that same coin, it is
much faster to draw an image than draw
lots of lines or draw lots of graphic
primitives. So you're better off just
drawing a bit map image that's as large
as reasonably possible. Keep in mind
that larger images might take more
memory and might not look good on
smaller device. And my next point about
uh scaling is also very important. So
anyway, small images are generally
problematic if you draw if you choose to
make lots of small images uh small image
drawings. That's that's a big cost.
That's why when we cut borders, we
recommend you cut relatively larger im
portions of the border for the nine
piece borders. See my tutorial on that.
It's just much much faster. And we find
that this is a great piece of uh cost in
ter terms of performance for some of our
users. Now image
scale is an issue uh where images uh if
you invoke the method image scale scaled
sorry I missed that here. It should be
scaled really not image scale. Uh that
method creates a new image that is
essentially scaled to the given
resolution. The thing is that this
method while it works it
produces not the highest quality image
because it doesn't do any interpolation
or anything it cost you in terms of
performance still because we do all of
this in Java code and but it's although
it's relatively fast the problem is uh
twofold the first there's a problem in
memory here uh once you invoke image
scaled you effectively uh get an image
that is much larger in terms of RAM. Uh
the default images you get in code name
one and you I suggest you read the image
section in the developer guide. It's
it's really complex but interesting I
think
fascinating. Uh the image section in uh
and that discusses it. Images don't
actually take their full size. they take
the size of uh the compressed image, the
PNG or the JPEG that you chose, which
isn't much. However, when you invoke
scale, the image will automatically take
up uh the width, the scale width you've
selected times the height* 4 and
possibly times two again for iPhone and
other
platforms. So, that is a pretty huge
size. So for instance, if you want to
set a background image for an iPad 3,
which
is48x536, then you'd have to do
*
uh 1536 * 4 * 2 because we keep the
image twice both in RAM and and on GPU
on the OpenGL uh section. So don't use
that method whenever possible. The
substitute is to use uh the draw
version. The if we will go into the
graphics section here
uh then you have a method which isn't
ideal. Normally you'd uh the best
approach when working with icons and
things like that is to use a method like
uh
uh when working with graphics like that
is to use a method uh uh like a
multi-image or something like that when
working with icons. But if you need
something like scaling, we suggest use a
method like this which is automatically
used when uh when we set a scaled
background or things like that. This
doesn't have the cost of uh uh the RAM
overhead and it's better in general
because it's usually handled by the GPU
on devices like J2ME. Unfortunately, it
isn't supported. So this works only with
uh the smarter devices out
there. Uh the two last things uh so the
Issues
problem is in our developer guide that
this is not always uh immediately
obvious that the roundrect issue is u
problematic. Uh the roundrect issue is
related to um the fact that when we draw
round rect that is really simp easy and
simple just drawing a roundre wctck. The
problem is when we combine it with a
background image and
transparency and that's where things
start to
fail because there is uh we don't have
roundrect clipping or the ability to
construct things in such a way. So the
performance of this is remarkably
remarkably slow and the memory overhead
is use uh nine piece images. Don't use
this. This is really really really
really really really
really
slow. Uh we have it there mostly for
historical reasons. Uh we'll probably
deprecate it because it is so slow. Uh I
would strongly recommend you don't use
it and use instead uh ninepiece images.
So don't use the roundrect border uh
unless you you're doing something really
trivial and even then you're better off
using a npiece image which is properly
multi anti-aliased and etc. So don't use
that uh at least not in the current
version of code name
one. Uh last but not not least is uh
translucency. Translucency is really
fast on modern devices. You shouldn't
worry about that. it should work okay.
Obviously, if you do lots of layers of
translucency, you will pay for that. So,
take that into consideration. However,
if you're targeting older devices,
specifically Symbian, Symbian sucks in
terms of translucency. This is a
well-known issue with uh the Symbian
devices. So, just don't use translucent
images or any form of
translucency if you want good
performance on a Symbian device. they
are just really slow with it and there
isn't much we can do about that. That's
uh a known issue with that device family
and the problem is that some of our
themes use translucency quite heavily.
So they won't perform as well on that on
those particular
devices. Uh so you might want to
optimize uh those themes. Now to track
performance issues is relatively simple.
just create a blank theme or a theme
without that much information in it and
try to reproduce the issue there. This
often helps you in finding whether the
performance is related to a theme
element or to something within your
application and work through a process
of elimination uh trying to get uh an
insight into which portion is causing uh
the performance effect that you are
seeing. Obviously, this isn't always a
trivial case because without the theme,
it is often harder to to truly perceive
performance. But uh but sometimes that
helps. So, thank you again for watching
this tutorial and I hope you've enjoyed
it and uh uh learned something from it.
Thanks.
