We are nearing the end and it's time the last two big features: media & push.

Here I'll focus on the former. Media includes all the aspects of the media from acquisition whether from the camera or gallery, to the upload & then viewing said media.
For the sake of simplicity I'll support only one media file and not the full breadth of ways Facebook allows you to submit/upload and manage media files.
We'll start with the changes in the server then move through the steps in that sequence.

The changes in the server for media support are minimal. Most of the work is already done we just need to wire and tune a few things. One thing I did need to change was the packet size in the database.

I had to add the argument --max_allowed_packet=256M to mySQL's launch arguments so it would work with large video files.

The most obvious change is to Post & its related DAO/Service classes. We'll start with Post itself.

I've added a relation to media files that lets us reference a specific media object. Notice you can add multiple media files. I won't use that in the code because that makes layout of these files a bit harder and I don't want to get into that. I also added a getter & setter but I won't show them as it's pretty obvious.

The next change in this class is to the DAO method of Post. Notice attachments are represented as a Map of Strings and not as MediaDAO objects, we don't want to expose the full DAO to the client

A map is enough as all we need in the client is the media ID & mime type

This map is now accepted in the PostDAO constructor

This leads me directly to the PostDAO class which has the predictable change within it. This map includes the set of attachments we created in Post

it's reflected in the constructor & in the getters/setters that we won’t detail. This will actually work seamlessly for return values

but for upload we will need an additional set of changes in PostService.
First we need media access which is the one repository we didn't include in the PostService. We need this so we can translate client request to server side media objects.

The work in the service is done in the post() method, it's a relatively simple change of translating media id's to media objects.

Since we are creating a new Post it's safe to create a set from scratch

We just use findById to set a media object into place. That's a trivial change but with it everything will work seamlessly on the server side as the DAO will handle the new JSON requests and server API doesn't need to change!

There is one tiny change we need to make to media service. It's very nuanced, see if you can spot it… I’ll give you a hint

See it? If you don’t I can give you a bigger hint

Notice it yet? We switched @RequestHeader to @RequestParam so the auth can be passed as an argument.
This is a security risk, if you share that URL from your app it will essentially hand out the key to your app!
So why do something like this if there is a risk in it?
In the client side when I want to show an image I can just submit a URL to the URLImage API. However, if I have a required header the only way to pass it is via global headers which would be a mistake here as it might leak that key to a 3rd party website by mistake. I could have left the API as it was and just written more elaborate code on the client...
I chose to take this shortcut both because it's simple and also to explain the nuances of security risks. This isn't a vulnerability, but it can become one if we aren't careful. When you are the only person working on the project this isn't a big deal but with more engineers coming on board details like this might be ignored/missed by latecomers.
With that the changes to support media on the server are done and we can move to the client side.
